---
layout:     post
title:      SCN
date: 2018-07-25 20:00:00 +0800
keywords:
categories:
tags:
    - note
    - reading
---
As an important mechanism in Oracle, SCN (System Chang Number) plays an important role in various functions such as data recovery, Data Guard, Streams replication, and synchronization between RAC nodes. Understanding the working mechanism of SCN can help you understand the above functions more deeply.
Before understanding SCN, let's first look at how ORACLE writes changed data (dirty data) to disk:
1. the beginning of the transaction (can be understood as a set of DML statements to start execution);
2. find the target data block in the buffer cache, if not found, then load the buffer cache from the data file;
3. The transaction modifies the data block in the buffer cache. The modified data is identified as ¡°dirty data¡±, and the modification process is written into the log buffer;
4. the transaction is submitted, the LGWR process writes the "dirty data" in the log buffer to the redo log file;
5. When a checkpoint occurs, the CKPT process updates the information in the header of all data files, and the DBWn process is responsible for writing the dirty data in the Buffer Cache to the data file.
After the above five steps, the data changes in the transaction are finally written to the data file. However, once the database unexpectedly crashes at some point in the above link, how does ORACLE determine which data has been written to the data file and which ones have not been written when the instance is restarted? (Again, there are similar questions in DG and streams: which of the redo logs are the data that has been copied in the previous synchronization, and which ones are not?) The SCN mechanism can solve the above problems relatively well.
The above content answers why there is something like SCN, what problem she can solve.
